Codex CLI – Overview
What Codex CLI Is

Codex CLI is a lightweight coding agent that runs in the terminal and allows developers to interact with an AI model to read, edit, and execute code within a project directory. It enables users to perform development tasks such as generating code, analyzing repositories, running commands, and modifying files directly from the command line.

The CLI operates in an interactive session where users give natural-language instructions and the agent performs actions on the codebase.

Execution Model

Codex runs locally in the developer’s environment and interacts with the project directory as its working context. The CLI can read files, suggest changes, and execute commands through the agent loop that interprets model actions and carries them out in the shell environment.

Developers typically start Codex in a project directory using:

codex

Once launched, the agent can analyze the repository and perform tasks requested by the user.

Configuration

Codex behavior is controlled through a config.toml file that defines runtime settings such as the model used, reasoning configuration, sandbox mode, and approval policies.

Example configuration:

model = "gpt-5.2-codex"
model_reasoning_effort = "medium"

Configuration options allow developers to customize how the agent interacts with their environment and tools.

Approval Policies

Approval policies determine when Codex requires user permission before performing actions such as running shell commands or editing files.

Common policy options include:

untrusted – only trusted commands run automatically

on-request – the model decides when approval is required

on-failure – approval requested when commands fail

never – commands run without approval

These policies provide varying levels of control over agent autonomy.

Sandbox Modes

Codex supports different sandbox modes that control how commands interact with the system environment.

Common modes include:

read-only – agent can inspect files but cannot modify them

workspace-write – agent can write within the project workspace

danger-full-access – agent can access the full system environment

These modes define the scope of file operations and system access available to the agent.

Environment Configuration

Codex also provides configuration for controlling environment variables passed to subprocesses. The shell_environment_policy setting determines which variables are inherited by commands executed by the agent.

Example configuration:

[shell_environment_policy]
inherit = "core"
exclude = ["AWS_*", "AZURE_*"]

This allows developers to control how the shell environment is exposed to Codex-executed commands.
